In this video, I'll talk about Spark DataFrames and datasets.
DataFrames and datasets are a core collections of the Spark SQL component.
The idea behind DataFrames is that they allow
processing of a large amount of structured data.
A DataFrame contains rows with Schema.
A DataFrame in Apache Spark has more extensive API than RDD,
but they still share some common features.
The features common to RDDs and DataFrames are: immutability,
in-memory, resilience, distributed-computing capabilities.
This all sounds like a lot,
but you can basically think of a DataFrame as a table in relational database,
or like a dataframe in pandas library.
A dataset is a data structure in Spark SQL,
which is a strongly typed and is a mapped to a relational schema.
It represents structured queries.
It is an extension to DataFrame API.
Spark datasets provide both type safety and on object-oriented programming interface.
The dataset API has been available since the release of spark 1.6.
But datasets are only available in Scala and Java.
So we won't be discussing them too much in this course.